PD-324: add enterprise info to minio app articles (#1872)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALE/SCALETutorials/Apps/EnterpriseApps/ConfigMinioEnterprise.md

---
title: "Configuring MinIO Enterprise"
description: "This article provides configuration instructions for MinIO Enterprise using the official MinIO application widget."
weight: 20
aliases: 
tags:
- scaleminio
- scaleapps
- scaleenterprise
---

{{< toc >}}

{{< enterprise >}}
The instructions in this article apply to the MinIO Official Enterprise application. 
The MinIO Enterprise application provides limited configuration settings for Enterprise systems. 
These settings allow Enterprise users to deploy a basic MinIO application in their environments. 

We recommend that TrueNAS SCALE Enterprise (HA) systems not deploy applications.
{{< / enterprise >}}

## First Steps

> If your system includes shares (SMB, NFS, iSCSI), disable the share service before adding and configuring a the MinIO application. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your system has active sharing configurations (SMB, NFS, iSCSI), disable these sharing services in **System Settings > Services** before adding and configuring the MinIO application.
```

After completing the installation and starting MinIO, enable the share service.

If you created a dataset for the MinIO shares and it has the same path as the MinIO application, disable host path validation. 

> To use host path validation create a dataset for the application with a unique path. For example, */pool/shares/minio* for the share and */pool/apps/minio* for the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use host path validation, create a dataset for the application with a unique path. For example, */pool/shares/minio* for the share and */pool/apps/minio* for the application.
```

## Configuring MinIO Enterprise
{{< hint info >}}

> This basic procedure covers the required MinIO Enterprise settings. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This basic procedure covers the required Enterprise MinIO App settings.
```

It does not provide instructions for optional settings.
{{< /hint >}}

> SCALE Enterprise single controller systems with the applications and virtual machines license have access to the **MinIO Official Enterprise** widget. Go to **Apps**, select the pool to use for applications, if not already selected, then click on **Available Applications** screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SCALE Enterprise single controller systems with the applications and virtual machines license feature have access to the **MinIO Official Enterprise** widget. Go to **Apps**, select the pool to use for applications, if not already selected, then click on the **Available Applications** screen.
```

![MinIOEnterpriseWidget](/images/SCALE/22.12/MinIOEnterpriseWidget.png "MinIO Enterprise Widget")

Click **Install** on the **MinIO Official Enterprise** widget to open the **minio** installation wizard.

![MinIOEnterpriseAppNameAndVersion](/images/SCALE/22.12/MinIOEnterpriseAppNameAndVersion.png "MinIO Enterprise Appliation Name and Version")

> Enter a name for your MinIO application deployment if not using the default value. **Version** populates with the current MinIO version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enter a name for your MinIO application deployment. A default value is provided but can be overriden. **Version** populates with the current MinIO version.
```
